# Measurement matters!

Measurement matters! And I am personally convinced that quality science can't
rises from *bad* measurements. I was a fool to believe statistical methods can
cope with bad data or even fix screwed-up measurements. I was wrong!
Garbage-In-Garbage-Out -- it is that simple. Be wiser than me.

To put words into action, I decided to expand this repository. The repo should
become a staging ares for a dozen important resources in my field. Including
references, podcasts, videos, and other golden *nuggets of truth* (...whatever
that means) is my first strike. Furthermore, I would love to complement the
collection with my own work in the field.

Let's modestly start with the first on. In general, I highly recommend the
works of Jessica Flake and Eiko Fried. Their works were like a wake-up call for
me. To save you some time and make you jump right off the ground; here are two
papers of their impressive smorgasbord: 

- Fired & Flake (2018): [Measurement matters](https://www.psychologicalscience.org/observer/measurement-matters)
- Flake & Fried (2020): [Measurement Schmeasurement](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/2515245920952393)

Kornbrot and their colleges joint in with the following article: 

- Kornbrot, Wiseman & Georgiou (2018): [Quality science from quality measurement](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0192808)

## Additional resources

Fried & Fried (2018) recognized that scientists often lack training, for
example, regarding validity theory, psychometrics, etc. Kindly they pooled
together some additional material on OSF (see: https://osf.io/zrkd4/). To
access the documents directly, click
(here)[https://docs.google.com/document/d/11jyoXtO0m2lUywpC04KjLvI5QcBUY4YtwEvw6cg2cMs/edit]

If you like to read a monograph on validating psychological constructs I warmly
recommend Kathleen Slaney's book "Validating Psychological Constructs â€“
Historical, Philosophical, and Practical Dimensions". Another great resource
focusing on making constructs measurable is Garry Goertz's "Social Science
Concepts and Measurement". It includes a great discussion about variables
transformation, too. Think of it as an attempt to bring the qualitative and
quantitative closer together. Last and least, one of my all-time favorites is
Denny Borseboom's "Measuring the Mind: Conceptual Issues in Contemporary
Psychometrics". This is a great evening read!

